# bRPC-Web

bRPC-Web is a Burp Suite extension that allows to disassemble and modify gRPC-Web requests and responses. The
implementation relies on heuristics instead of Protobuf definition files to disassemble messages. For displaying
the protobuf messages in a human-readable and editable format, the Protoscope language 
(https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protoscope/blob/main/language.txt) is used.

## Quick Start

This section shows you how to install and use the extension in Burp Suite.

While it is not a strict prerequisite, it is recommended to have a basic understanding of Protobuf and gRPC.
Some useful resources include:
* Protobuf / gRPC overview: https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/introduction/
* Protobuf encoding specification: https://protobuf.dev/programming-guides/encoding/

### Supported Burp Suite Versions
The extension officially supports Suite v2025.5.6 and above, but was also successfully tested for previous versions.

### Installation

1. Download the JAR file from the release page. (Alternatively, you can build the extension yourself - see build
   instructions below).
2. Install the JAR file in Burp Suite (navigate to "Extensions" ==> "Installed", click the "Add" button
   and then load the JAR file by clicking the top "Select file..." button).

### Usage

The extension adds a tab "gRCP-Web" in the request / response windows for the Proxy, Repeater, and Logger
when the content type is either of the following:
* `application/grpc-web` (implicit `+proto`)
* `application/grpc-web+proto`
* `application/grpc-web+text`

The gRCP-Web messages are displayed in the Protoscope file format. All fields in a request / response can be 
edited. This includes adding and deleting fields.

## Implementation Status

### Features

The extension can handle gRPC-Web messages in `proto` and `text` format (see content types above). Both unary
and streaming responses are supported. The (binary) protobuf messages are disassembled based on heuristics - no
protobuf message definition files are required. While the implementation seems to work well for services
that it has been tested against, such a disassembly strategy is necessarily imperfect, however.

The Protoscope parser currently supports the following subset of the Protoscope file format:
* `VARINT` 
* `LEN` (strings, sub-messages, packed repeated fields, binary blobs)
* `INT64`
* `INT32`

The Protoscope grammar is defined in `src/main/antlr4/com/muukong/Protoscope.g4`.

### Limitations
* The VARINT type is always disassembled and displayed as `uint64`. This works for most fields that are relevant for a
penetration test. If you explicitly need 32-bit or signed values (int32, sint32, sint64), you have to perform
the conversion manually.
* The `SGROUP` and `EGROUP` wire types are deprecated and thus currently not supported.
* The extension only supports gRPC-Web messages as Burp Suite has no support for gRPC.

## Building the Project

### Prerequisites

The following software must be installed:
* Maven
* Java 17 SDK

### Build Extension

Build the JAR file:
```bash
$ mvn package
```
Two JAR files (one with and the other without dependencies included) are written to the `$PROJ_ROOT/target` folder.
The version with dependencies can be loaded in Burp as described in the "Installation" section above.

## Development 

### Project Structure

All Java source code is located at `src/main/com/muukong/` with the following folders:
* `burp`: holds all files relevant for the Burp extension itself (e.g. UI components)
* `grpcweb`: implements processing of gRPC-Web messages
* `parsing`: implements the visitor for the (auto-generated) Protoscope language parser
* `protobuf`: implements protobuf disassembler and protobuf message types
* `util`: various utility functionality

The Antlr4 grammar for Protoscope is located at `src/main/antlr4/com/muukong/Protoscope.g4`. The parser code is
automatically generated by running the Maven command above.
